##Introduction 
The agent I’ve written has quite simple ideas behind it. The 
main parts of it are inspired from the 6CCS3AIN module practicals and the agents we had to write in them. They’re the main part of the current PartialAgent. There are also some additional things added, which in the course of developing the agent, seemed to help improving its performance. Additional files not included due to not being produced or edited by me. They can be found on http://ai.berkeley.edu/project_overview.html
## Description 
Since the very first condition to be met for Pacman to win a game is staying alive, this the first thing the agent is trying to do, before bothering about any food or coordinates along the map, Pacman checks of there are any ghosts in vicinity, if there are, he runs away from the closest one until the ghost is no longer visible. Then If Pacman happens to be safe and away from any threats, he focuses on the next condition he needs to win the game – eating the food, by starting to seek all the visible food and he either eats it or remembers its position, so he can come back to it at later point of the game, when he’s out of visible food. 
The Pacman decides to first play safe and eat all the food, that he knows where exactly is, before starting to seek corners, however if he has no idea where there is food for sure – he starts to visit all the corners in anti-clockwise order.
## Strategy 
The whole agent is a sequence of condition checks which occur every time Pacman has to make a move. It starts with finding the dimensions of the board and setting 4 variables’values to the extremes of the x and y dimensions, so we can safely navigate Pacman, without the risk of asking him to leave the dimensions of the arena.
The next checks we do before trying to do any actions include checking what are Pacman’s current location, the possible moves in the exact moment, followed by removing the STOP command from them and save them to the corresponding variables. Then, based on Pacman’s location, we check if he’s either on one of the locations, saved as locations with food or on any of the corners, so we can update the state variables and remember he has been there.
The last pre-checks we do are for visible food and ghosts. If there are visible ghosts we store them in a list, similarly, if there is visible food, we store it in a temporary list, but also add it to list with the available foods around the map, in order for Pacman to remember where hecan find food, he has already seen, also we add the visible capsules to the temporary list with visible food after that, but no to the list with available food, so he doesn’t start walking around just for a capsule, which is not required to be eaten for a win.After those checks comes the actual decision-making logic. The first if statement checks if there are any visible ghosts, if there are, Pacman analyses their location and according to that tries to run away. If there is more than 1 visible ghost, Pacman calculates the distance to each one of them and focuses on running away from the closest one. The very first thing he tries is to move opposite to the location of the ghost in terms of Pacman’s position and also removes the option that will get him closer to the ghost from the list of possible options (of course if it is inside that list). If running straight away from the ghost happens to not be a possible option, Pacman performs random action from the list with possible action. Alsoadditional check is added here, in case Pacman is trapped(for example being on 8,5 or 11,5 and having walls on three sides and Pacman on the fourth) he is forced to execute the Stop action, because he is dying anyway, but if he has to choose action of the legal actions list, it will throw exception and will break the test, if number of games are supposed to run.If no ghosts are visible, we jump to the next bit of code, which checks if the list withcurrently visible food has any elements and if that is the case, in similar way to the way the ghosts were sorted, if finds the closest piece of food and moves towards it. This bit of code is inspired from my personal work on the second practical and its HungryAgent. For avoiding getting stuck, another check is added. In general, we wouldn’t like Pacman to reverse his last action and get stuck in performing the same pair of actions infinitely, or at least until he sees a ghost and starts running away from it. That’s why if a given direction is his last action and the opposite one is in the list of legal moves, we remove, but only if this is not the last possible move. We do this at this stage, so Pacman can have absolute freedom for moves, when he is running away from a ghost.
In a situation, where no food and ghosts are visible, Pacman checks if he remembers about any food that he has seen on the map but hasn’t eaten. If the list with available food isn’tempty, we find the closest one and start navigating Pacman towards it. The navigation itself its pretty straightforward, we compare the coordinates along the x axis first and try to move accordingly either or west (depending on < or >). If the x coordinates match, or move to thedesired direction isn’t possible, we them compare the coordinates along the y axis and try tomove North or South (again depending on < or >). If that’s not possible again, then first we try the opposite action in terms of the y axis, then as final option, the opposite action in terms of the x axis.
Then if none of those if statements are fulfilled, it’s time for corner seeking. Before we start, we just check if all the variables, stating if the corners are visited are true, we set them all to false, so we can continue to seek corners.Navigation to corners is pretty straightforward as well. First, we check its coordinates, just in case, he is already in the corner. If this is the case, we set the variable for visiting that corner and make a random possible move. Otherwise, for example if he’s seeking for the bottomright corner, he first tries to move East, if not possible – South, if not possible as well – we go back West. With the other corners, the logic is the same, if we seek top left, the sequence is West, North, South, East.
## Methodology 
For reaching the current agent, couple of versions were developed and many different things were tried. Every time a relatively significant change was added, the file was saved, tested and compared to previous ones. Also, I’ve been watching many ot the iterations with the GUI on, to spot the problems and mistakes Pacman is making.The first one, named 1.0, consisted only from running away from ghosts, eating closest food and seeking corners, which were all inspired from the agents I wrote for the practicals.After 1.1, in 1.2 I experimented with changing the sequence in which corners were visited. Tests didn’t show significant difference in the order, unless they are visited clockwise or anticlockwise, but it performed better than moving diagonally in 1.1. And seemed to perform a bit better on the medium classic layout. The next thing that was changed was experimenting with removing the STOP action from the legal actions list, which used to happen after running from ghosts and seeking closest food in 1.0 and 1.1. In 1.2 it was moved to the beginning of the function and all the if statements were simplified and reworked, which led to almost twice better win rate and increase in the average score.When observing the graphical interface in games on 1.2 some small bugs were spotted and exceptions handled. The main thing added on 2.0 was check if Pacman is at any of the corners and setting the visit variable to true is he’s there in the beginning of the function. This stopped him for going to corners he already visited while running from ghosts or seeking food. This led to further improvements in score and win rate.The last big change that was made in 3.0 was adding the bit that records the food he has seen, but not eaten and seeking it before going for the corners, which was as well inspired by watching Pacman playing the games and leaving behind small pieces of food, even 
sometimes needing the ghost to move him from his path, so he can eat the food.
